The Project Gutenberg EBook of Freezing Combination Main Dishes, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Freezing Combination Main Dishes
       Home and Garden Bulletin No. 40

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: October 6, 2020 [EBook #63395]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FREEZING COMBINATION MAIN DISHES ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                               _Freezing_
                        combination main dishes


                    Home and Garden Bulletin No. 40
                     U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE




                                Freezing
                        combination main dishes


Vacant space in your freezer? Put some of it to use by freezing main
dishes—prepared, ready to be heated or cooked and served. Days or weeks
later you, your family, guests perhaps, can enjoy the results of your
foresight.

Included in this publication are general directions for successful
freezing of such main dishes as the stews, meat loaves, and casserole
combinations made from recipes given on pages 6 to 19.

For tiptop quality and economical use of freezer space, plan your
freezing and use of precooked main dishes so that they will be in the
freezer no longer than 2 or 3 months. However, most of these foods if
properly packaged and stored will not suffer serious quality loss if
kept up to 6 months. After 6 months’ storage, quality often declines
rapidly, but the food is still safe to eat.


Preparing the food

In general, prepare the food as you would if it were to be served right
away. Do not overcook. Some ingredients in main dishes that must be
reheated for serving are better if slightly underdone for freezing. If
cooked well-done before freezing, foods such as vegetables and macaroni
are likely to be too soft when reheated. They also may have a
warmed-over taste.

Soups and sauces thickened with ordinary wheat flour may tend to
separate or curdle on thawing. Frozen gravies, sauces, and soups may be
somewhat thicker after thawing than when freshly prepared, but suitable
liquid can be added to give the desired consistency. Commercially frozen
soups, sauces, and gravies are often made with waxy rice flour, which
results in a smoother product. If waxy rice flour is available, it is a
good idea to use it. However, soups, sauces, and gravies made with
ordinary flour can be satisfactory if they are quick-frozen and stored
at 0° F. for only 2 to 3 months. Stirring during reheating helps to
overcome separation, too.

Crumb or cheese toppings are best added when the food is reheated for
serving.

Pastry crusts frozen unbaked are more tender and flaky and have a
fresher flavor than those baked and then frozen.


Cooling

Quick cooling of the food immediately after it is cooked stops the
cooking and so helps keep the natural flavor, color, and texture of the
food. It also retards or prevents the growth of bacteria that may cause
spoilage.

To cool, set uncovered pan of food in iced or very cold water; change
the water to keep it cold. Or set pan on ice. Or put the uncovered pan
of food in a cold place.


Packaging

As soon as the food is cool, put it promptly into freezer containers of
moisture-vapor-proof or moisture-vapor-resistant packaging material.
Pack the food tightly into the container to reduce the amount of air in
the package.

In quart containers, the food may be separated into two or three layers
by a double thickness of water-resistant material such as cellophane
between the layers. This makes it possible to separate the frozen block
of food easily to shorten the reheating time.

Choose a size of container that holds only enough for one meal for your
family. Quart containers hold 4 to 6 servings; pints, 2 to 3. Use only
containers with wide top openings so the food does not have to be thawed
completely to remove it from the container.

Containers and materials. Many combination main dishes are semiliquid in
consistency and are best packaged in rigid containers made of
moisture-vapor-proof materials such as aluminum, glass, pottery,
plastic, plain or enameled tin, or moisture-vapor-resistant material
such as heavily waxed cardboard.

Some prepared foods, like meat pies and casserole dishes, may be frozen
in the containers in which they were baked, ready for reheating at time
of using.

Bags of suitable material can be used for semiliquid foods but are less
convenient than rigid containers. They are well adapted to less moist
foods. Sheets of freezer packaging materials are used for wrapping foods
that hold their shape.

Bags and sheets are made of moisture-vapor-resistant cellophane, heavy
aluminum foil, pliofilm, polyethylene, or laminated papers consisting of
combinations of paper, metal foil, glassine, cellophane, or other
materials.

Unwaxed folding cardboard cartons are often used to hold foods packaged
in bags or sheets for protection against tearing and for easy stacking
in the freezer. Sheets of packaging material may be used as outer wraps
for unwaxed cardboard cartons containing unwrapped foods. The sheets are
sealed with freezer tape, or with a warm iron if they are heat-sealing
on both sides.

Ordinary waxed papers, household aluminum foil, and cartons designed for
cottage cheese and ice cream are not sufficiently
moisture-vapor-resistant to be suitable for packaging foods to be frozen
and held more than a few days.

Head space. Since liquid expands as it freezes, allow ample head space
when packing liquid and semiliquid foods. Most freezer containers have a
mark or line to show how much head space to leave. For a tall, straight
or slightly flared container and for bags, ½ inch is generally
recommended for pints and 1 inch for quarts. For low, broad containers
less head space is needed, about ¼ inch for pints and ½ inch for quarts.
To assure a good closure, keep sealing edges free from moisture or food.

When packaging foods with freezer sheet material, wrap them as tightly
as possible.

Sealing. Seal rigid freezer containers by adjusting the lids as required
for the type of package used. Casseroles made of ovenproof material can
be covered and then sealed with freezer tape or wrapped as needed.

Bags can be sealed by twisting and folding back the top and securing
with a string or with a paper-covered metal strip or rubber band that
may come with the bag. Some bags and sheets may be heat-sealed with a
warm household iron or one of the special sealing irons available on the
market. Others may be sealed with freezer tape.


Freezing

Freeze prepared foods as soon as they are packed. Freeze and store at 0°
F. or below.


Reheating for serving

Most precooked frozen foods can be reheated either in the oven or on top
of the range. Reheating in the oven takes little of the cook’s attention
and usually keeps the texture of the food better. Reheating on top of
the range in a double boiler or saucepan is faster.

When using a double boiler, start with warm, not hot, water in the lower
pan so the thawing food won’t stick.

Reheating over direct heat requires considerable attention because the
food must be stirred often. The stirring may result in less desirable
texture.

If heating several blocks of frozen food, don’t stack them—use a wider
pan.

Generally it is better to reheat frozen cooked main dishes without
thawing. However, to transfer the food to another container for
reheating or to remove cellophane between layers, you will need to
partially thaw the food. Do this by placing the package in lukewarm
water for a few minutes.

If you thaw food completely before reheating, it is usually best to thaw
in the refrigerator. Thawing at room temperature is not recommended.
Once food is thawed, use it immediately.




                               _RECIPES_


When you are preparing a main dish it often takes little more effort and
time to make enough for several meals. You can freeze it all in
meal-size packages, or serve part of it the same day and freeze the
rest.

The following recipes yield enough for 16 to 25 portions of the size
indicated. For these larger-than-usual quantities you may need to check
the size of your cooking utensils. As a guide to the size of utensil
needed, multiply the number of portions by the size of portion to find
out the total quantity of food that the recipe makes.

Recipes include directions both for serving the food immediately and for
reheating the frozen food for serving.


_POULTRY COMBINATION DISHES_

Creamed chicken and chicken a la king are two favorites for freezing.
Recipes are also given here for chicken and turkey in appetizing
casserole dishes that freeze well.

If chicken broth is not available, you can substitute 1 cup canned
chicken bouillon or 1 chicken bouillon cube and 1 cup hot water for each
cup of chicken broth called for in a recipe.


Creamed chicken

                       _16 portions, ¾ cup each_

  ¾ cup chicken fat, butter, or margarine
  1⅛ cups sifted all-purpose flour
  1 tablespoon salt
  4 cups chicken broth
  4 cups milk
  2 quarts diced cooked chicken

Melt the fat and blend in the flour and salt. Add broth and milk. Cook
until thickened, stirring constantly. Add the chicken and heat to blend
flavors.

_To serve immediately._ Heat the mixture thoroughly and serve on rice,
toast, or biscuits.

_To freeze._ Cool the food quickly. Pack in freezer containers, leaving
head space (p. 4). (Pint containers are preferable to larger ones
because large blocks of creamed chicken are difficult to thaw.) Seal and
freeze immediately.

_To prepare for serving._ Without thawing, heat frozen creamed chicken
in the top of a double boiler, about 30 minutes for 1 pint.

_Menu suggestion._ Serve with snap beans and shredded carrot and raisin
salad. Have fruit sherbet and crisp cookies for dessert.


Chicken a la king

                       _16 portions, ¾ cup each._

  ½ cup chicken fat, butter, or margarine
  6 tablespoons chopped green pepper
  3 cups canned mushrooms
  ¾ cup sifted all-purpose flour
  2 teaspoons salt
  3 cups chicken broth
  3 cups milk
  6 tablespoons finely cut pimiento
  3 pints diced cooked chicken

Melt the fat and cook green pepper and mushrooms in it about 5 minutes.
Blend in the flour and salt, then add broth and milk. Cook until
thickened, stirring constantly. Add pimiento and chicken. Blend well.

_To serve immediately._ Heat the mixture thoroughly and serve on
biscuits, hot, buttered toast, or in timbales.

_To freeze._ Cool the food quickly. Pack in freezer containers, leaving
head space (p. 4). (Pint containers are preferable to larger ones
because large blocks of chicken a la king are difficult to thaw.) Seal
and freeze immediately.

_To prepare for serving._ Without thawing, heat frozen chicken a la king
in the top of a double boiler, about 30 minutes for 1 pint.

_Menu suggestion._ Serve with asparagus and stuffed tomato salad, and
upside-down cake.


Turkey-macaroni casserole

                       _25 portions, ¾ cup each_

  1¼ quarts shell or other macaroni
  2 quarts boiling salted water
  ⅔ cup melted butter or margarine
  1¼ cups sifted all-purpose flour
  2 quarts milk
  1½ tablespoons salt
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  1 teaspoon marjoram
  2½ cups grated cheese
  ¾ cup chopped pimiento
  1¼ quarts diced cooked turkey

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water 15 minutes or until almost
tender; drain and rinse with water. Combine the melted butter or
margarine with the flour, stir in the milk, and cook until thick. Add
seasonings, cheese, pimiento, macaroni, and turkey.

_To serve immediately._ Place enough for one meal in a greased casserole
and top with grated cheese if desired. Bake uncovered at 350° F.
(moderate oven) for 30 to 40 minutes.

_To freeze._ Cool the food quickly. Pack in freezer containers, leaving
head space (p. 4). Seal and freeze immediately.

_To prepare for serving._ Bake uncovered at 400° F. (hot oven) until
food is heated through, about 45 minutes for pints, 1 hour for quarts.

A topping of grated cheese may be added to this dish the last 5 minutes
of heating.

_Menu suggestion._ Serve with broiled tomato halves and julienne snap
beans. Steamed cranberry pudding would make a good dessert for this
meal.


_MEAT STEWS AND MEAT PIES_

Almost any type of meat stew, ragout, or goulash—beef, lamb, pork, or
veal—can be frozen. Most vegetables in these combination dishes freeze
well. Frozen potatoes may not be of the same quality as fresh-cooked
potatoes, but they are acceptable if the stew or meat pie is not stored
for more than 6 months.

Add a rich, flaky biscuit or pastry topping to a good meat and vegetable
stew and you have a delicious meat pie, a family treat that freezes
well. The biscuit or pastry topping may be added before freezing or made
fresh and added to the pie when reheating for serving.

It is best to freeze meat pies and turnovers unbaked.


Lamb or beef pie

                     _24 portions, 2½ by 2¾ inches_

  3 pounds boneless lamb or beef cut in 1-inch pieces
  1 quart water
  1 tablespoon salt
  1½ cups chopped celery
  3 cups cubed potatoes
  3½ cups quartered onions
  ½ cup peas, fresh or frozen
  ½ cup sifted all-purpose flour
  Pastry (see p. 10 for recipe)

Brown the meat in its own fat. Add the water and one-half of the salt.
Simmer until meat is tender. Add celery, potatoes, onions, peas, and
remaining salt and cook until vegetables are almost tender.

Drain the broth from the meat and vegetables. Add water to the broth if
needed to make 3½ cups. Add ½ cup cold water to the flour and stir until
smooth. Slowly add the flour mixture to the rest of the broth and cook
until thickened, stirring constantly.

Combine the thickened broth with the meat and vegetables.

_To serve immediately._ Pour stew for one meal into a greased baking
dish. Top with a pastry crust. Bake at 400° F. (hot oven) for 30
minutes.

_To freeze._ Cool meat mixture quickly. Place in ovenproof baking dish
and top with pastry. Wrap in freezer packaging material. Or package stew
in freezer containers, leaving head space (p. 4). Seal and freeze.

_To prepare for serving._ Bake meat pies frozen with pastry topping at
400° F. (hot oven) about 4-5 minutes for pints, 1 hour for quarts, or
until stew is piping hot and crust is golden brown.

If stew is frozen without pastry topping, transfer it to a greased
baking dish and place in hot oven. After stew is almost heated through
(about 30 minutes), top with pastry crust. Bake until crust is golden
brown.

_Menu suggestion._ Your favorite fruit salad will add zest to the meal.
For dessert try chocolate fudge cake or pistachio ice cream with
chocolate sauce.


Pastry topping for lamb or beef pie

  3 cups sifted all-purpose flour
  2 teaspoons baking powder
  1 teaspoon salt
  1 cup shortening
  ½ cup cold water

Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Cut in the shortening
until the mixture is granular. Add water and mix lightly with a fork.

Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured board or pastry cloth, roll to
about ⅛ inch in thickness, and cut to fit the baking dish or freezer
container.


Ham turnovers

                     _25 portions, 1 turnover each_

  1½ quarts ground cooked ham (lightly packed)
  ⅓ cup finely chopped onion (well packed)
  1 cup tomato sauce
  2 tablespoons chopped parsley
  ¼ teaspoon pepper
  ¾ teaspoon powdered dry mustard
  ¾ teaspoon prepared horseradish
  6½ cups sifted all-purpose flour
  2 teaspoons salt
  1¾ cups shortening
  1 cup cold water

Combine ham, onion, tomato sauce, parsley, pepper, mustard, and
horseradish.

Make pastry as follows: Sift flour and salt together. Cut in shortening
until the mixture is granular. Add water a little at a time and mix
lightly with a fork. Roll out dough on a lightly floured board to ⅛-inch
thickness. Cut into rounds or squares about 5 inches across.

Place about 2½ tablespoons of ham mixture on each piece of pastry. Fold
pastry over from center, forming a half-moon or triangle. Crimp edges of
pastry together with a fork.

_To serve immediately._ Bake at 400° F. (hot oven) for 25 minutes. Serve
peas or celery in cream sauce over the turnovers.

_To freeze._ Wrap unbaked turnovers individually in the freezer
packaging material and pack in cardboard cartons. Or pack in layers in
moisture-proof freezer containers, separating the layers with two sheets
of cellophane or other moisture-vapor-resistant material. Seal and
freeze.

_To prepare for serving._ Remove the wrapping, place turnovers on a
baking sheet, and bake at 400° F. (hot oven) for 30 minutes.

_Menu suggestion._ Serve peas or celery in cream sauce over the
turnovers. Assorted raw vegetables, baked sweetpotatoes, and cinnamon
apples might complete the menu.


Pork savory

                       _25 portions, ¾ cup each_

  3 pounds lean pork, cut in 1-inch pieces
  1½ teaspoons salt
  ½ teaspoon pepper
  1 tablespoon fat or oil
  3 cups water
  2½ cups sliced carrots
  1 cup sifted all-purpose flour
  3 cups sour cream
  3½ cups diced potatoes
  1 tablespoon finely chopped onion
  1½ cups green lima beans
  1 tablespoon salt

Sprinkle the pork with salt and pepper. Brown the meat in the fat or
oil, add water, cover, and simmer until the meat is tender.

Cook the carrots in a little water until almost tender.

Combine flour and sour cream; beat until smooth. Combine with meat and
broth.

Add the vegetables and salt and blend well.

_To serve immediately._ Bake covered at 375° F. (moderate oven) for 1
hour; remove the cover and continue baking for about 30 minutes to brown
the top.

_To freeze._ Bake covered at 375° F. (moderate oven) for 1 hour. Cool
quickly. Pack in freezer containers, leaving head space (p. 4). Seal and
freeze immediately.

_To prepare for serving._ Bake uncovered at 400° F. (hot oven) until the
food is heated through, about 45 minutes for pints, 1 hour for quarts.

Or reheat in a saucepan over low heat, or in the top of a double boiler,
stirring as needed to prevent sticking.

_Menu suggestion._ A tossed green salad, spiced crabapples, and peach
betty go well with this main dish.


_MEAT LOAVES_

You can make a meat loaf that is to be frozen by any good meat loaf
recipe. Just make enough for several meals instead of one and freeze the
extra loaves. For a change from the usual meat loaf, try this cheese
meat loaf or jellied ham loaf.


Cheese meat loaf

              _25 slices, each about ¾ by 1½ by 4 inches_

  2½ pounds ground beef
  1 cup chopped cheese
  3 tablespoons chopped green pepper
  ⅔ cup chopped onion
  2½ cups dry breadcrumbs
  1 tablespoon salt
  ½ small bay leaf, crushed
  ¼ teaspoon thyme
  Dash of garlic salt
  3 eggs, beaten
  2½ cups tomato puree

Mix the beef, cheese, green pepper, onion, crumbs, and seasonings
thoroughly. Combine eggs and tomatoes, and blend into meat mixture.

_To serve immediately._ Place meat mixture in loaf pan. Bake at 350° F.
(moderate oven) for about 1 hour.

_To freeze._ Meat loaf may be frozen unbaked or baked.

Wrap unbaked meat loaf in moisture-resistant packaging material. Or put
mixture in metal freezer containers or loaf pans; cover with lids or
wrap in packaging material. Seal and freeze.

For frozen baked meat loaf, bake mixture in metal freezer containers or
loaf pans at 350° F. (moderate oven) for about 1 hour. Cool quickly.
Cover or wrap as above. Seal and freeze.

_To prepare for serving._ Bake frozen uncooked meat loaf uncovered at
350° F. (moderate oven) for about 1½ hours or until done.

Cover frozen baked meat loaf with tomato sauce or gravy made from meat
drippings and reheat at 400° F. (hot oven) for about 1 hour. Or, if
preferred, thaw frozen baked meat loaf in the refrigerator, slice, and
serve cold. Or cover slices with gravy or sauce and reheat in a saucepan
over low heat.

_Menu suggestion._ Serve with tomato or mushroom sauce, parsley
potatoes, baked spinach, and cherry tarts.


Jellied ham loaf

                   _25 portions, 1 by 4 by 4 inches_

  5 tablespoons unflavored gelatin
  1 cup cold water
  1½ quarts coarsely ground lean cooked ham
  3 cups chopped celery
  1½ teaspoons onion juice
  ¾ teaspoon powdered horseradish
  ¾ cup mayonnaise
  1½ cups cooked salad dressing (p. 19)
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ¾ teaspoon prepared mustard
  ¾ cup sliced stuffed olives

Soak gelatin in cold water for 5 minutes. Place over hot water until
dissolved. Combine all ingredients. Mix well.

_To serve immediately._ Place in a loaf pan of desired size. Garnish
with sliced hard-cooked eggs. Chill until firm, slice, and serve on
crisp salad greens.

_To freeze._ Place in loaf pans or freezer containers. Chill until firm.
Cover with lids or wrap in freezer packaging material. Seal and freeze.

_To prepare for serving._ Thaw, without unwrapping, in the refrigerator.
Garnish with sliced hard-cooked eggs, slice, and serve on crisp salad
greens.

_Menu suggestion._ Serve with buttered lima beans and sliced tomatoes,
and apple pie a la mode for dessert.


_HEARTY BEAN DISHES_

Cooked dry beans freeze especially well. Because freezing, like cooking,
softens beans somewhat, cook them until barely tender for the best
quality frozen product.


Baked beans

                       _25 portions, 1 cup each_

  2¼ quarts (4 pounds) dry beans, Great Northern or pea
  4 quarts boiling water
  ¾ pound salt pork, sliced
  ¼ teaspoon red pepper
  1 cup brown sugar, well packed
  3½ teaspoons powdered dry mustard
  2 tablespoons salt
  1 cup chopped onion
  1 cup molasses

Add beans to boiling water and boil 2 minutes. Remove from heat and soak
in the hot water 1 hour. Or if more convenient, soak overnight after the
2-minute boil.

Drain beans and heat the drained liquid. Place beans in beanpots or
other covered baking dishes with a slice of salt pork in the center of
each. Top with slices of salt pork.

Combine seasonings, onion, and molasses and pour over beans. Add hot
bean liquid. Additional water may be needed as the beans bake.

_To serve immediately._ Cover and bake at 300° F. (slow oven) for 6
hours or until the beans are tender.

_To freeze._ Bake the beans covered at 300° F. (slow oven) for 5 hours
or until nearly done. Cool quickly. Pack in freezer containers, leaving
head space (p. 4). Seal and freeze immediately.

_To prepare for serving._ Add a small amount of water to the beans and
reheat in a saucepan over low heat, stirring frequently to prevent
sticking. Or reheat in the top of a double boiler. Or bake at 400° F.
(hot oven) until beans are heated through, about 45 minutes for pints, 1
hour for quarts.

_Menu suggestion._ Serve with coleslaw, brown bread, and lemon sponge
pudding.


Barbecued lima beans

                       _16 portions, ¾ cup each_

  4½ cups (2 pounds) baby lima beans, dry
  2 quarts boiling water
  ½ pound chopped salt pork or bacon
  1 cup chopped onion
  1¼ teaspoons minced garlic
  3 tablespoons prepared mustard
  ½ teaspoon salt
  2 teaspoons worcestershire sauce
  2 teaspoons chili powder
  2½ cups condensed tomato soup
  ¼ cup vinegar
  4 teaspoons brown sugar
  2 cups bean liquid

Add beans to boiling water and boil 2 minutes. Remove from heat and soak
in the hot water 1 hour. Or if more convenient, soak overnight after the
2-minute boil. Boil beans gently in the soaking liquid until almost done
(about 40 minutes).

Brown the salt pork or bacon, onion, and garlic. Add mustard, salt,
worcestershire sauce, chili powder, tomato soup, vinegar, sugar, and
beans and bean liquid.

_To serve immediately._ Pour into greased baking dish or pan. Bake at
400° F. (hot oven) for 30 minutes.

_To freeze._ Cool the beans quickly. Pack in freezer containers, leaving
head space (p. 4). Seal and freeze immediately.

_To prepare for serving._ Proceed as for baked beans, page 15.

_Menu suggestion._ Serve with asparagus salad garnished with pimiento
strips, and orange bavarian cream for dessert.


Ham and bean scallop

                       _25 portions, 1 cup each_

  1¾ quarts (3 pounds) dry pea beans
  3 quarts boiling water
  5 cups cooked ham, diced
  ½ cup ham fat
  1½ cups finely chopped onion
  ½ cup sifted all-purpose flour
  2 tablespoons worcestershire sauce
  2 teaspoons powdered dry mustard
  2 teaspoons salt
  2 quarts milk
  3 cups grated cheese

Add beans to boiling water and boil 2 minutes. Remove from heat and soak
in the hot water 1 hour. Or if more convenient, soak overnight after the
2-minute boil. Cook beans in the soaking liquid about 1½ hours (slightly
underdone).

Heat the fat, add onion, and cook until golden brown. Add flour,
worcestershire sauce, mustard, and salt, blending to a smooth paste.
Stir in the milk. Cook until thickened, stirring constantly. Combine
cheese, ham, and beans with the sauce. Remove from heat.

_To serve immediately._ Pour enough of the mixture for one meal into a
greased baking dish or pan. Top with ½ cup fine dry breadcrumbs and bake
at 350° F. (moderate oven) about 20 minutes, or until crumbs are golden
brown.

_To freeze._ Cool the food quickly. Pack in freezer containers, leaving
head space (p. 4). Seal and freeze immediately.

_To prepare for serving._ Reheat in the top of a double boiler, stirring
occasionally to speed thawing. Or, if food is frozen in an ovenproof
container, uncover, top with fine dry breadcrumbs, and bake at 400° F.
(hot oven) about 45 minutes for pints, 1 hour for quarts.

_Menu suggestion._ Serve with brussels sprouts, stewed tomatoes, and
celery sticks, have sauteed peach halves for dessert.


Beans and sausage, Mexican style

                       _25 portions, 1 cup each_

  1½ quarts (2½ pounds) dry kidney beans
  4½ quarts boiling water
  1 quart chopped onion
  1¼ cups chopped green pepper
  1 tablespoon minced garlic
  4 pounds bulk pork sausage
  1 quart bean liquid
  2 tablespoons salt
  2 tablespoons chili powder (or to taste)
  2 quarts canned tomatoes
  ½ cup sifted all-purpose flour

Add beans to boiling water and boil 2 minutes. Remove from heat and soak
in the hot water 1 hour. Or if more convenient, soak overnight after the
2-minute boil. Cook beans in the soaking liquid about 1 hour (slightly
underdone). Drain; save the liquid and if necessary add water to make 1
quart.

Combine onion, green pepper, garlic, and sausage. Cook until sausage is
light brown, breaking it up as it cooks. Add beans, bean liquid, salt,
chili powder, and tomatoes, reserving ½ cup tomato liquid. Blend flour
with reserved tomato liquid and add to bean mixture. Blend well. Simmer
until thickened (about 30 minutes), stirring frequently to prevent
sticking.

_To serve immediately._ Simmer until beans are tender. Serve on mounds
of fluffy rice.

_To freeze._ Cool the bean and sausage mixture quickly. Pack in freezer
containers, leaving head space (p. 4). Seal and freeze immediately.

_To prepare for serving._ Add a small amount of water and reheat in a
saucepan over low heat, stirring frequently to prevent sticking. Or
reheat in the top of a double boiler. Or bake at 400° F. (hot oven)
until the food is heated through, about 45 minutes for pints, 1 hour for
quarts.

_Menu suggestion._ Serve plain or on rice, with tossed green salad and
french bread, and for dessert have pineapple sherbet.


Cooked salad dressing for jellied ham loaf

  ¼ cup sugar
  2 teaspoons flour
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  ¾ teaspoon powdered dry mustard
  Few grains cayenne
  ⅛ teaspoon pepper
  1½ teaspoons butter or margarine, melted
  ¾ cup milk
  6 tablespoons vinegar
  2 eggs, slightly beaten

Mix sugar, flour, and seasonings.

Stir butter or margarine into the dry ingredients gradually. Slowly
blend in the milk, then the vinegar.

Cook over hot water until mixture thickens, stirring occasionally. Stir
a little of the hot mixture into the egg and add to rest of mixture.
Cook 3 minutes, stirring constantly.




                           _INDEX TO RECIPES_


  Page
  Baked beans                                                         15
  Barbecued lima beans                                                16
  Beans and sausage, Mexican style                                    18
  Cheese meat loaf                                                    13
  Chicken a la king                                                    7
  Creamed chicken                                                      6
  Ham and bean scallop                                                17
  Ham turnovers                                                       11
  Jellied ham loaf                                                    14
  Lamb or beef pie                                                     9
  Pastry topping for lamb or beef pie                                 10
  Pork savory                                                         12
  Salad dressing, cooked, for jellied ham loaf                        19
  Turkey-macaroni casserole                                            8


                           _MORE INFORMATION_

  _Order No._
  Home Freezing of Fruits and Vegetables                            G 10
  Home Freezers . . . Their Selection and Use                       G 48
  Home Care of Purchased Frozen Foods                               G 69
  Home Freezing of Poultry                                          G 70
  Freezing Meat and Fish in the Home                                G 93

  These publications are available from the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250.


                               This is a
                           _Consumer Service_
                                of USDA

                   Human Nutrition Research Division
                     Agricultural Research Service
                     U.S. Department of Agriculture
                            Washington, D.C.
                            Issued July 1954
                           Revised April 1965

             U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE:1965—O-763-705


      For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
         Printing Office. Washington. D.C. 20402—Price 10 cents




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos, including listed errata.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of Project Gutenberg's Freezing Combination Main Dishes, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FREEZING COMBINATION MAIN DISHES ***

***** This file should be named 63395-0.txt or 63395-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/3/9/63395/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

